MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Ifill: THE SENATE CLEARED THE
WAY FOR A FINAL VOTE ON THE
BIPARTISAN BUDGET DEAL.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, RUSSIA
OFFERED BILLIONS IN AID TO
BOLSTER THE PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE WHILE PROTESTERS IN KIEV
CONTINUE TO CALL FOR HIM TO
RESIGN AND FOR CLOSER TIES TO
EUROPE.
>> Ifill: PLUS, A PEEK INSIDE
P.B.S' "MASTERPIECE," THE LONG-
RUNNING SERIES INTRODUCING
AMERICAN AUDIENCES TO BRITISH
DRAMAS LIKE "DOWNTON ABBEY."
>> THERE IS A CERTAIN GOODNESS
OF INTENT TO ALL THESE
CHARACTERS, AND I THINK THAT'S
BEEN MISSING IN TELEVISION,
BRITISH AND AMERICAN.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: AN AGREEMENT ON HOW
MUCH AND WHAT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT SHOULD SPEND MONEY ON
TOOK A GIANT STEP TOWARD FINAL
APPROVAL IN CONGRESS TODAY.
THE SENATE VOTED TO LIMIT DEBATE
ON THE MEASURE THAT'S ALREADY
PASSED THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
>> ON THIS VOTE, THE YEAS ARE
67, AND THE NAYS ARE 33.
>> Woodruff: WITH THAT CRITICAL
PROCEDURAL HURDLE CLEARED, THE
ONLY QUESTION LEFT FOR THE
BUDGET DEAL IS WHEN-- NOT IF--
IT WILL PASS.
A DOZEN REPUBLICANS JOINED ALL
55 MEMBERS OF THE DEMOCRATIC
CAUCUS DEMOCRATS TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH THE BILL.
THE CHAIR OF THE SENATE BUDGET
COMMITTEE, DEMOCRAT PATTY
MURRAY, HELPED CRAFT THE
MEASURE.
>> MR. PRESIDENT, THIS DEAL IS A
COMPROMISE.
IT DOESN'T TACKLE EVERY ONE OF
THE CHALLENGES WE FACE AS A
NATION, BUT THAT WAS NEVER OUR
GOAL.
THIS BIPARTISAN BILL TAKES THE
FIRST STEPS TOWARDS REBUILDING
OUR BROKEN BUDGET PROCESS AND
HOPEFULLY TOWARDS REBUILDING OUR
BROKEN CONGRESS.
>> Woodruff: GEORGIA REPUBLICAN
SAXBY CHAMBLISS AGREED WITH THAT
ASSESSMENT.
>> THE LEGISLATION WE HAVE
BEFORE US TODAY IS THE
EMBODIMENT OF COMPROMISE,
SOMETHING THAT HAS UNFORTUNATELY
BEEN ABSENT IN WASHINGTON AS OF
LATE.
>> Woodruff: THE AGREEMENT WOULD
ROLL BACK $63 BILLION IN
AUTOMATIC, ACROSS-THE-BOARD
SPENDING CUTS, THE SO-CALLED
SEQUESTER.
THEY WOULD BE REPLACED BY $85
BILLION IN TARGETED CUTS AND
INCREASED REVENUES OVER THE NEXT
DECADE.
THAT TOTAL INCLUDES $6 BILLION
IN REDUCED COST-OF-LIVING
ADJUSTMENTS FOR YOUNGER MILITARY
RETIREES.
SEVERAL REPUBLICANS VOICED
OPPOSITION TO THAT PROVISION,
AMONG THEM MISSISSIPPI'S ROGER
WICKER.
>> WE CAN FIND $6 BILLION
ELSEWHERE WITHOUT BREAKING A
PROMISE TO PEOPLE WHO, DURING A
TIME OF THE GLOBAL WAR ON
TERROR, HAVE STOOD FORWARD,
DONNED THE UNIFORM OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND
VOLUNTEERED TIME AND TIME AGAIN
>> Woodruff: FINAL PASSAGE ON
THE BUDGET MEASURE IS EXPECTED
NO LATER THAN WEDNESDAY.
IN AFGHANISTAN, SIX AMERICAN
SOLDIERS DIED IN A HELICOPTER
CRASH TODAY.
IT WAS THE WORST SINGLE INCIDENT
TO HIT NATO FORCES THERE IN
MONTHS.
THE TROOPS WERE ABOARD A BLACK
HAWK THAT WENT DOWN IN THE
SOUTHERN PROVINCE OF ZABUL.
THERE WAS ONLY ONE SURVIVOR.
THE CAUSE IS UNDER INVESTIGATION
BY NATO.
THERE WAS NO ENEMY FIGHTING
REPORTED NEARBY.
THE U.S. IS MOVING TO BEEF UP
SECURITY FORCES IN THE
PHILIPPINES AMID GROWING
TENSIONS WITH CHINA.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
PLEDGED MORE THAN $40 MILLION IN
AID TODAY.
HE MET WITH HIS PHILIPPINE
COUNTERPART AND MAINTAINED THE
AID IS NOT DIRECTLY AIMED AT
COUNTERING CHINA.
BUT HE AGAIN CRITICIZED BEIJING
FOR IMPOSING AN AIR DEFENSE ZONE
OVER DISPUTED WATERS.
>> THE UNITED STATES DOES NOT
RECOGNIZE THAT GOAL AND DOES NOT
ACCEPT THAT.
THE ZONE ISSUED NOT BE
FROM TAKING SIMILAR
UNILATERAL ACTIONS ELSEWHERE IN
THE REGION AND PARTICULARLY OVER
THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
>> Woodruff: JUST YESTERDAY,
KERRY ANNOUNCED $32 MILLION IN
SECURITY AID FOR VIETNAM.
MEANWHILE, JAPAN HAS ITS OWN
PLAN TO ANSWER CHINA'S MILITARY
EXPANSION.
THE RULING CABINET IN TOKYO
VOTED TODAY TO INCREASE DEFENSE
SPENDING BY 5% OVER THE NEXT
FIVE YEARS.
THE MONEY WILL PAY FOR NEW
SURVEILLANCE DRONES, JET
FIGHTERS AND NAVAL DESTROYERS.
NORTH KOREA'S POLITICAL AND
MILITARY ELITE MADE A SHOW OF
LOYALTY TO LEADER KIM JONG UN
TODAY ON THE SECOND ANNIVERSARY
OF HIS FATHER'S DEATH.
STATE TELEVISION SHOWED KIM
FRONT AND CENTER AT A MEMORIAL
EVENT FOR KIM JONG IL AS TOP
OFFICIALS PLEDGED SUPPORT.
THE PAGEANTRY CAME DAYS AFTER
THE LEADER'S POWERFUL UNCLE WAS
EXECUTED AS A TRAITOR.
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS HAVE THEIR
FIRST GUILTY PLEA IN A BRIBERY
AND FRAUD SCANDAL.
A NAVY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATOR
APPEARED IN FEDERAL COURT IN SAN
DIEGO THIS AFTERNOON.
PROSECUTORS SAY HE RELAYED SHIP
MOVEMENTS TO AN ASIAN DEFENSE
CONTRACTOR IN EXCHANGE FOR
LUXURY TRIPS AND PROSTITUTION
SERVICES.
SIX NAVY OFFICIALS HAVE BEEN
IMPLICATED IN THE SCANDAL.
THE WASHINGTON, D.C., CITY
COUNCIL VOTED TODAY TO RAISE THE
LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE TO $11.50 AN
HOUR, ONE OF THE HIGHEST IN THE
NATION.
IT TAKES EFFECT IN 2016.
AND ON WALL STREET, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
NINE POINTS TO CLOSE AT 15,875.
THE NASDAQ FELL FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,023.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
TECH TITANS VISIT THE WHITE
HOUSE; A DRUG MAKER STOPS PAYING
DOCTORS FOR PROMOTIONS; A
UKRAINE IN TURMOIL TURNS TO
RUSSIA FOR AID; EL SALVADOR'S
TOUGH STANCE ON ABORTION; MAKING
"DOWNTON ABBEY" AND OTHER
MASTERPIECES; NEW YORK'S
EXPERIMENT WITH MICRO-
APARTMENTS.
>> Ifill: WE TURN TO THE LATEST
DEVELOPMENTS OVER THE REACH OF
THE GOVERNMENT'S SURVEILLANCE
ROGRPAM.
TECH EXECUTIVES FROM 15 LEADING
COMPANIES-- INCLUDING GOOGLE,
FACEBOOK, TWITTER AND APPLE--
MET WITH THE PRESIDENT AT THE
WHITE HOUSE TODAY.
THE COMPANIES CAME WITH AIST L
OF CONCERNS ABOUT GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE ON THE DAY AFTER A
FEDERAL JUDGE QUESTIONED ITS
CONSTITUTIONALITY.
MARGARET TALEV COVERS THE WHITE
HOUSE FOR BLOOMBERG NEWS.
SO WHAT WAS ON THE EXECUTIVE'S
AGENDAS WHO SHOWED UP AT THE
WHITE HOUSE TODAY, MARCH
SPHWRET.
>> SO MUCH IN THE FINAL WEEKS OF
THE ADMINISTRATION WITH THE
PRESIDENT MAKING DECISIONS ABOUT
HOW TO REIN IN THIS PROGRAM
ABOUT MAKING CLEAR WHAT THEIR
CONCERNS ARE WHICH IS THEIR
BUSINESS IS AFFECTED BY OTHER
COUNTRIES AND THEY'RE WORKING ON
BEHALF THE NSA.
>> WHAT WAS THE WHITE HOUSE
AGENDA AT THE MEETING.
>> SO MUCH OF THE WHITE HOUSE
AGENDA IS SIMILAR TO THAT
PERCEPTION AND ABOUT SENDING A
SIGNAL TO AMERICANS THEY CARE
ABOUT PRIVACY AND SENDING A
SIGNAL TO AMERICAN BUSINESS AND
THE PRESIDENT WHO HAS THE SORT
OF BAD RAP ABOUT UNDERSTANDING
THE CONCERNS OF BUSINESS DOES
AND THAT SHE LISTENING.
>> Ifill: THERE WERE 15 TECH
TITANS INVITED TO THIS MEETING.
HOW MANY OF THEM HAVE BEEN
AFFECTED BY FOR INSTANCE THESE
EFFORTS OF THE GOVERNMENT'S PART
TO MAKE THEM TURN OVER RECORDS
OF THE USERS.
>> EVENTUALLY ALL OF THEM HAVE
BEEN DIRECTLY AFFECTED OR ARE
CONCERNED IN SOME WAY THEY WILL
BE AFFECTED FROM A FINANCIAL
PERSPECTIVE.
BUT, FOR EXAMPLE, THESE
COMPANIES LIKE GOOGLE, FACEBOOK,
TWITTER, AT&T AND COMCAST, THE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES
HAVE BEEN DIRECTLY AFFECTED.
SOME OF THE OTHER INTERNET
COMPANIES, TO THE EXTENT THEY
USE SORT OF CLOUD SERVICES, THE
MAJOR DERNS, THAT'S IN TERMS OF
THE EXISTING BUSINESS AND THEIR
ABILITY TO GROW BUSINESS IN BOTH
EUROPE AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.
>> I KNOW THIS WAS A PRIVATE
MEETING AND PEOPLE WERE HEAVY
WITH THE COMMENTS AFTERWARDS BUT
WHAT KIND OF CONVERSATION
HAPPENED AT THE TABLE?
>> ONE IS THAT ERIK SCHMIDT OF
GOOGLE OPENED UP BY SAYING THESE
ARE FINE BROAD APPLICABLES ALL
OF US AGREE ON TO THE STENT WE
CAN TELL YOU WHAT WE SHARE IN
TERMS OF RECOMMENDATIONS THIS IS
IT AND WE HAD TO DO LARGELY ON
TWO FRONTS, ONE IN TERMS OF SORT
OF STARTING AND DIALING BACK
COLLECTIONS INFORMATION AND
INCREASING TRANSPARENCY SO THE
COMPANIES CAN TELL THEIR
CLIENTS, TELL THEIR CUSTOMERS OR
INDIVIDUALS THIS IS HOW MANY
REQUESTS THE GOVERNMENT HAS MADE
LAST YEAR SO THE PEOPLE CAN GET
A HANDLE ON HOW BIG IT IS.
THE OTHER THING IS THAT MELISSA
MAYOR OF YAHOO EXPRESSED A
CONCERN ABOUT THE BALKANIZATION
OF POLICIES FROM COUNTRY TO
COUNTRY IN ORDER TO DEAL WITH
THAT AND HOW THAT CAN BE PROBLEM
AT PROBLEMATIC FOR AMERICAN
BUSINESS.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT ASKED
FOR A REVIEW PANEL TO LOOK INTO
THESE MEASURES.
DO YOU KNOW IF HE AND THE
EXECUTIVES AGREE ON WHAT THIS
SHOULD LOOK LIKE?
>> WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT THE REVIEW
PANEL IS THROUGH THE LEAKS
BECAUSE THE INFORMATION IS
CLASSIFIED UNTIL ITS
DECLASSIFIED AND WE WON'T SEE
THEM IN THE FORM THEY'RE
SUBMITTED.
WE WILL SEE A VERSION OF THAT
SOMETIME IN JANUARY.
WILL WE KNOW WHO THAT THE PANEL
RECOMMENDED THAT THE GOVERNMENT
CONTINUE ITS METADATA PROGRAM
AND THAT'S BASED ON REPORTS OUT
FROM ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS SO
FAR AND SO, YESTERDAY'S MOVE BY
THE DISTRICT COURT JUDGE THAT
SAYS I THINK THAT MISS METADATA
CORRECTION IS PROBABLY
UNCONSTITUTIONAL SO YOU HAVE THE
PANEL SAYING GO FORWARD WITH
MODIFICATIONS AND THE COURT
SAYING I DON'T THINK SO, WE WANT
TO HEAR FROM THE APPEALS COURT
BUT THIS JUDGE WOULD BE SAYING
IT GOES TOO FAR.
>> Ifill: WAS IT A COINCIDENCE
THAT THE WHITE HOUSE ANNOUNCED
THEY HIRED SOMEONE FROM
MICROSOFT TO TAKE OVER HEALTH
healthcare.gov.
>> AN INTERESTING POINT AND WHAT
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS BEEN TELLING
US, THIS MEETING WAS PLANNED
DAYS AGO.
THEY MAY HAVE ALWAYS PLANNED 20
ROLL OUT THE MICROSOFT
EXECUTIVES OUT OF THIS MEETING.
THE WHITE HOUSE ORIGINALLY
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT HEALTH CARE
AND WHAT THEY'RE DOING TO FIX
THE BUGS IN THE HEALTH CAROL OUT
AND THE TECHY EXECUTIVES SAID
GUESS WHAT, WE'RE NOT COMING
UNTIL YOU TELL US WE'RE ON TOP
OF THE AGENDA AT THIS MEETING.
>> Ifill: AND WILL HE.
HE WILL SUCCEED THE GIANTS IN
OVERSEEING AND RUNNING THE
PROGRAM AND MAKING SURE THAT IF
EVERYTHING GOES AS PLANNED THAT
THE HEALTH CARE WEB SITE AND
PROCESS GOES FORWARD AND THE
AMERICANS WILL BE ABLE TO SIGN
UP WITHOUT THE GLITCHES THAT
HAVE PLAGUED THE INITIAL WEEKS
OF THE ROLL OUT.
>> Ifill: MARGARET T A.
LEV, BLOOMBERG, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW, DRUGS, DOCTORS
AND THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY.
THOSE CONNECTIONS HAVE LONG BEEN
THE SUBJECT OF ETHICAL AND
BUSINESS CONCERNS, PARTICULARLY
WHEN IT COMES TO THE FINANCIAL
TIES BETWEEN DOCTORS AND THE
DRUG COMPANIES.
YESTERDAY, ONE OF THE WORLD'S
BIGGEST PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANIES, GLAXOSMITHKLINE,
ANNOUNCED CHANGES TO SOME OF ITS
PRACTICES.
IT WILL NO LONGER PAY DOCTORS TO
PROMOTE ITS DRUGS, AND IT WILL
STOP COMPENSATING SALES
REPRESENTATIVES BASED ON THE
NUMBER OF PRESCRIPTIONS DOCTORS
WRITE.
THE MOVES COME FOLLOWING OTHER
PROBLEMS FOR THE COMPANY,
INCLUDING A BRIBERY SCANDAL IN
CHINA INVOLVING PAYMENTS TO
ALLEGEDLY BOOST SALES.
AND A SETTLEMENT WITH THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT LAST YEAR ON
MARKETING DRUGS FOR IMPROPER
USES.
WE LOOK AT THESE CHANGES, AND
BOTH OUR GUESTS ARE PROFESSORS
AT HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL AND
AFFILIATED WITH BRIGHAM AND
WOMEN'S HOSPITAL, BUT THEY HAVE
DIFFERENT VIEWS: DR. JERRY AVORN
AND DR. THOMAS STOESSEL.
>> DR. AVORN LET ME START WITH
YOU.
EXPLAIN A LITTLE MORE ABOUT WHAT
IS IT THAT MANY DOCTORS ARE
DOING AND HOW MANY ARE DOING IT?
HOW WIDESPREAD IS THIS?
>> WELL, JUDY, IT'S QUITE COMMON
FOR COMPANIES TO HIRE DOCTORS TO
BE ON WHAT THEY CALL SPEAKERS'
BUREAUS IN WHICH THE DOCTOR WILL
TRAVEL AROUND AND GIVE LECTURES
ABOUT A DRUG AND, IN MANY CASES,
THE SLIDES AND THE CONTENT AND
SCRIPT ARE ACTUALLY PREPARED BY
THE DRUG COMPANY AND THE DOCTOR
PRESENTS THIS INFORMATION AS THE
LATEST INFORMATION ABOUT
DIABETES OR BLOOD PRESSURE OR
WHATEVER, AND IT'S NOT ALWAYS
CLEAR TO THE AUDIENCE THAT THIS
IS MATERIAL THAT WAS REALLY
SCRIPTED COMPLETELY BY THE DRUG
COMPANY THAT WAS PAYING THE
DOCTOR TO GIVE THE TALK.
>> AND HOW LONG HAS THIS KIND OF
THING BEEN GOING ON, DR. AVORN?
>> PROBABLY FOR DECADES AND IT'S
NOT THE BEST WAY FOR DOCTORS TO
LEARN ABOUT DRUGS IN A FAIR AND
BALANCED MATTER.
>> DR. STOESSEL, WHAT WOULD YOU
ADD TO THAT IN TERMS OF WHAT
DOCTORS ARE DOING NOW, OR MANY
ARE THEM ARE DOING FOR THE DRUG
COMPANIES.
>> WELL, I AGREE WITH C
DR. AVORN, IT WAS A VERY COMMON
PRACTICE FOR A MAJORITY OF
DOCTORS, AND WE HAVE SOME
RELATIONSHIP, WHETHER IN THE
MARKETING SIDE OR RESEARCH, WITH
DRUG COMPANIES, AND THAT HAS
IMPROVED LONG OF TEE AND LIFE
QUALITY, SO THE IDEA THAT IT
SOMEHOW IS PROBLEM ATTIC IS JUST
NOT CLEAR BUT IT IS EXTREMELY
COMMON.
>> EXTREMELY COMMON MEANING MOST
DRESS DO SOMETHING LIKE THIS OR
IS IT JUST REALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO
SAY?
>> WELL, THERE HAVE SURVEYS THAT
HAVE SHOWN THAT UP TO 3/4 OF
DOCTORS OF THAT ILK HAVE SOME
KIND OF FINANCIAL RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE COMPANY, NOT
NECESSARILY SPEAKING.
NE OF MANY, MANY
FORMS OF COLLABORATION.
>> DR. AVORN, WHAT SIT THAT YOU
FIND OBJECTIONABLE ABOUT THIS?
WHAT IS THE PROBLEM WITH IT?
AND WHAT IS THE CHANGE THAT YOU
SEE GLAXO MAKING?
>> WELL IF I AS A DOCTOR WANT TO
LEARN ABOUT A DRUG I THINK IT'S
BETTER FOR ME TO LEARN ABOUT IT
FROM SOMEBODY WHO IS AN EXPERT
IN THE FIELD BUT WHO IS NOT
BEING PAID TO TEACH ME BY THE
COMPANY MAKE THE PRODUCTS THAT
HE IS TEACHING ABOUT.
I THINK IT'S MUCH BETTER TO HAVE
IMPARTIAL NONCOMMERCIAL UNBIASED
SOURCES GIVING US OUR
INFORMATION BECAUSE THAT WAY
IT'S MUCH MORE LIKELY TO TELL US
WHAT WE NEED TO DO TO TAKE
BETTER CARE OF PATIENTS, NOT BE
PART OF A MARKETING APPARATUS TO
INCREASE SALES OF A GIVEN DRUG,
AND THAT'S THE ACTIVITY THAT
GLAXO IS WINDING DOWN AND I
THINK THAT'S A HEALTHY THING.
>> AND DR. STOESSEL, WHAT ABOUT
THIS IDEA THAT FOR SOMEONE TO BE
PAID TO EXPLAIN A DRUG, THAT
THAT IN ESSENCE IS PRESENTING A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST?
>> SURE.
FIRST OF ALL, DRNGS DR. AVORN
AND I WOULD AGREE AGREE IT'S
VERY HARD FOR DOCTORS TO KEEP UP
WITH INFORMATION.
NEW INFORMATION IS COMING IN ALL
THE TIME SO IT'S VITAL THAT
DOCTORS HAVE EXPOSURE TO AS MUCH
INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE.
NOW, WITH RESPECT TO THE GLAXO
MOVE, WE DON'T REALLY KNOW THE
DETAILS OF WHY THEY MADE THAT
DECISION.
I HOPE THEY MADE THAT DECISION
BECAUSE THEY FEEL THEY HAVE
ALTERNATE WAYS OF GETTING
INFORMATION ABOUT THE PRODUCTS
TO DOCTORS.
IF THEY DON'T, THE SHAREHOLDERS
ARE TO BE VERY CONCERNED AND
PATIENTS OUGHT TO BE CONCERNED.
NOW, AS FAR AS BEING PAID, WELL,
I THINK THAT THE INSTITUTION
DR. AVORN AND I WORK AT PAYS US
AND WE AND OUR COLLEAGUES GO OUT
AND ENCOURAGE PATIENTS TO COME
TO OUR INSTITUTION, BUT AT THE
SAME TIME, WE THINK WE GIVE
OUTSTANDING OBJECTIVE CARE.
NOW, BEING PAID IS AN IMPORTANT
PART OF OUR ECONOMY, AND THE
ONUS SHOULDN'T BE ON WHO PAYS
HIM BUT WHAT IS THE QUALITY OF
THE SERVICE.
>> SO DR. AVORN, WHAT ABOUT IT
WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT INTEREST
THAT PERSPECTIVE.
>> HE HAS ONE THING WHEN A
DOCTOR IS PAID TO DO CLINICAL
SERVICES FOR A PATIENT.
EVERYBODY KNOWS WHAT YOU'RE
DOING AND WHY YOU'RE GETTING
PAID.
BUT TO DO TEACHING ABOUT A DRUG,
I THINK IT IS SIMPLY MUCH MORE
MESSY & DISTORTED TO HAVE THAT
EDUCATION PAID FOR BY THE
COMPANY THAT MAKES THE DRUG.
I'M MUCH MORE IN FAVOR OF
PROGRAMS IN WHICH DOCTORS CAN BE
EDUCATED ABOUT MEDICATIONS BY
PEOPLE WHO HAVE NO COMMERCIAL
AXE TO GRIND AND WE HAVE BEEN
DOING SOME WORK ALONG THOSE
LINES ON A NONPROFIT BASIS FOR
YEARS AND DOCTORS REALLY
APPRECIATE HEARING ABOUT A DRUG
FROM A COLLEAGUE WHO IS NOT
GETTING PAID TO READ A SCRIPT
BUT IS EVALUATING THE EVIDENCE
AS ITS THERE.
>> DR. STOESSEL DOCTOR WOULDN'T
A SYSTEM LIKE THAT WORK?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL DOCTORS
APPRECIATE HEARING FROM OTHER
DOCTORS WHO ARE PAID BY
COMPANIES BECAUSE THEY VOTED
WITH THEIR FEET BECAUSE THESE
SO-CALLED PEER TO PEER SPEAKING
ACTIVITIES HAVE BEEN EXTREMELY
POPULAR.
IT ALLOWS DOCTORS TO LEARN FROM
OTHER DOCTORS WHO, WHETHER OR
NOT THEY'RE SCRIPTED KNOW A LOT
ABOUT THE PRODUCT IN QUESTION.
NOW, I HAVE NO OBJECTION TO THE
TYPE OF EDUCATION THAT DR. AVORN
DOES.
WE NEED ALL TYPES OF EDUCATION.
BUT EVEN THOUGH IT'S NONPROFIT
HE HAS AN AGENDA TO SUPPORT IT.
SO WE RETURN TO WHAT WE SAID
BEFORE, IT'S THE QUALITY OF THE
INFORMATION, NOT THE JUDGMENTS
ABOUT THE MOTIVES OF THE PEOPLE
PROVIDING IT THAT IS IMPORTANT.
DR. AVORN, DO YOU THINK WHAT
GLAXO SMITHKLINE IS DOING IS NOW
GOING TO BE COPIED OR EMULATED
BY OTHER PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANIES?
>> I DO THINK THEY'RE SETTING A
GOOD EXAMPLE AND I WONDER IF THE
OTHER COMPANIES ARE GOING TO
HANG BACK AND SEE WHAT IS THIS
DOING TO THEIR SALES BECAUSE YOU
CAN PROBABLY SELL MORE DRUGS
WHEN YOU CAN TOTALLY CONTROL THE
FLOW OF INFORMATION THAN IF YOU
JUST PAY A HOSPITAL OR MEDICAL
SCHOOL TO DO WHATEVER KIND OF
EDUCATION IT WANTS.
IT WILL BE VERY INTERESTING TO
SEE WHETHER THIS IS GOING TO
CAUSE THEIR SALES TO TAKE A HIT
OR WHO THIS WOULD BE A MODEL
THAT OTHER COMPANIES ARE WILLING
TO FOLLOW.
WE WILL LEARN ABOUT THAT IN THE
COMING YEARS.
>> Woodruff: DR. STOESSEL DO YOU
EXPECT OTHER COMPANIES TO DO THE
SAME THING AND THERE WILL BE AN
EFFECT ON PATIENTS?
>> I HOPE NOT.
>> I THINK THAT, IT NEEDS TO BE
LOOKED AT.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO POINT
OUT, THAT THIS PROBLEM IS
APPROACHED AS IF IT WERE A
MONOLITHIC AND ONE SIZE FITS ALL
BUT THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF
COMPANIES WITH DIFFERENT PRODUCT
LINES, AND IT'S MUCH MORE
IMPORTANT, FOR EXAMPLE, IN AN
ORPHAN DISEASE OR A CUTTING-EDGE
AREA, SUCH AS CANCER, THAT NEW
INFORMATION ABOUT RAPIDLY
EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES GET TO
DOCTORS SO THEY CAN HELP
PATIENTS.
IT MAY BE THAT THE GLAXO PRODUCT
PROFILE IS NOT SO -- IT'S NOT SO
NECESSARY FOR THEM TO ENGAGE IN
THOSE ACTIVITIES.
SO I THINK -- OR I HOPE FOR THAT
HEALTH OF THE INDUSTRY THEY WILL
REACT STRATEGICALLY AND REACT IN
THE BEST INTEREST OF KEEPING
THEIR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMS PROFITABLE SO THEY CAN
OR MAY TAKE AS MANY SHOTS ON
GOAL AS POSSIBLE.
>> I WAS GOING TO SAY AS FAR AS
PATIENTS IT COULD BE BETTER IF
PATIENTS ARE HEARING NOT ONLY
ABOUT THE COSTLIEST PRODUCTS BUT
THE GOOD OLD-FASHIONED GENERICS
THAT MAY WORK WELL BUT NOBODY IS
PAYING A DRUG COMPANY TO GO OUT
AND TEACH ABOUT THAT SO IT MAY
MAKE DRUGS MORE AFFORDABLE WHICH
IS GOOD FOR PATIENTS.
>> AND IT'S AN URBAN LEGEND THAT
ALL NEW PRODUCTS ARE MORE
EXPENSIVE, WHICH THAT IS TRUE,
AND THAT DOCTORS DON'T HEAR
ABOUT THEM, THEY WON'T PRESCRIBE
THEM, THAT IS TRUE.
BUT THE IDEA THAT OLD GENERICS
ARE AS GOOD AS NEW PRODUCTS IS
SOMETIMES THROUGH BUT IT IS NOT
ALWAYS TRUE, AND THAT IT NEEDS
TO BE VIEWED ON A CASE-BY-CASE
BASIS.
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR YOU BOTH.
THOMAS STOESSEL AND DR. JERRY
AVORN.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: IN UKRAINE, PROTESTERS
ARE BACK AT THE BARRICADES
AGAIN, THEIR ANGER REFUELED BY
THEIR PRESIDENT'S NEW DEALINGS
WITH MOSCOW.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS.
>> Warner: RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN THREW EMBATTLED
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT VIKTOR
YANUKOVICH A LIFELINE TODAY,
AGREEING TO BUY $15 BILLION IN
UKRAINIAN BONDS AND TO SLASH THE
SELLING PRICE OF RUSSIAN NATURAL
GAS BY ABOUT A THIRD.
HE LAUNCHED THEIR TALKS AT THE
KREMLIN BY VOICING SOLIDARITY
WITH HIS ECONOMICALLY STRAPPED
NEIGHBOR.
>> ( translated ): I VERY MUCH
HOPE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO
MOVE FORWARD IN SOLVING THE MOST
SENSITIVE ISSUES FOR US.
WITHOUT ANY DOUBT, UKRAINE IS
OUR STRATEGIC PARTNER AND ALLY
IN EVERY SENSE OF THIS WORD.
>> Warner: BUT PUTIN INSISTED
THERE WAS NO DISCUSSION OF
UKRAINE BECOMING PART OF AN
ECONOMIC TRADING BLOC OF FORMER
SOVIET STATES, OVER WHICH
YANUKOVICH HAS BEEN CRITICIZED
AT HOME.
>> ( translated ): I WOULD LIKE
TO CALM EVERYBODY DOWN.
WE HAVE NOT DISCUSSED TODAY AT
ALL THE QUESTION OF UKRAINE
JOINING THE CUSTOMS UNION.
>> Warner: YET BACK IN THE
UKRAINIAN CAPITAL, NEWS OF THE
BAILOUT ANGERED PROTESTORS WHO
WANT UKRAINE TO MOVE TOWARD THE
EUROPEAN UNION, NOT BACK INTO
RUSSIA'S FOLD.
ONE OPPOSITION LEADER, FORMER
HEAVYWEIGHT BOXING CHAMP VITALY
KLITSCHKO, INSISTED THEIR
BATTLE IS NOT OVER.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
STRUGGLING, BUT WE WILL WIN.
THE AUTHORITIES ARE SHAKING, BUT
THEY HAVE NOT GIVEN UP.
THEY'VE GIVEN UP UKRAINE'S
NATIONAL INTERESTS, THEY'VE
GIVEN UP UKRAINE'S INDEPENDENCE,
AND THEY'VE GIVEN UP
PERSPECTIVESBETTER LIFE FOR
ALL UKRAINIANS.
>> Warner: THE PROTESTORS HAVE
BEEN CAMPED OUT IN KIEV'S MAIDAN
SQUARE SINCE NOVEMBER 25, WHEN
YANUKOVICH, UNDER PRESSURE FROM
RUSSIA, UNEXPECTEDLY RENEGED ON
PLANS TO SIGN A POLITICAL AND
TRADE AGREEMENT WITH THE E.U.
LAST WEEK, THEY WERE BOOSTED BY
A VISIT FROM ASSISTANT SECRETARY
OF STATE VICTORIA NULAND, WHO
HANDED OUT BREAD AND
ENCOURAGEMENT.
AND E.U. FOREIGN POLICY CHIEF
CATHERINE ASHTON CAME AWAY FROM
A MEETING WITH YANUKOVICH SAYING
HE'D PLEDGE TO SIGN THE
AGREEMENT AFTER ALL.
BUT ON SUNDAY, E.U. OFFICIALS
SAID NEGOTIATIONS WERE GOING
NOWHERE, AND THE CROWD IN THE
SQUARE SWELLED TO SOME 200,000.
>> THE FREE WORLD IS WITH YOU.
AMERICA IS WITH YOU.
I AM WITH YOU!
>> Warner: ARIZONA SENATOR JOHN
McCAIN TOLD THE DEMONSTRATORS
THAT UKRAINE'S DESTINY LIES WITH
EUROPE, NOT WITH RUSSIA.
BACK IN WASHINGTON TODAY, WHITE
HOUSE SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY SAID
THE KREMLIN BAILOUT DOESN'T
ADDRESS THE PROTESTORS'
CONCERNS, NOR UKRAINE'S DEEPER
ECONOMIC PROBLEMS.
>> AS WE'VE SAID IN THE PAST, WE
URGE THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT TO
LISTEN TO ITS PEOPLE AND TO FIND
A WAY TO RESTORE A PATH TO THE
PEACEFUL, JUST, DEMOCRATIC AND
ECONOMICALLY PROSPEROUS EUROPEAN
FUTURE TO WHICH UKRAINIAN
CITIZENS ASPIRE.
>> Warner: THE KREMLIN PLANS TO
BUY THE FIRST INSTALLMENT OF
UKRAINIAN BONDS THIS WEEK.
>> Ifill: AND MARGARET JOINS ME
NOW.
>> LET'S START WITH THE KREMLIN.
WHAT WAS GOING ON THERE?
>> THIS WAS VLADIMIR PUTIN
TRYING TO LANCE BOIL WITH --
REMEMBER, THESE ARE THE BIGGEST
PROTESTS IN EASTERN EUROPE IN
THIS CENTURY SINCE THE ORANGE
REVOLUTION IN 2004, BIGGER
THE PROTEST AGAINST PUTIN ABOUT
FOUR YEARS AGO.
AND PUTIN FOR ONCE PLAYED THIS
SMART.
HE DIDN'T FORCE VIKTOR
YANUKOVICH TO SIGN THE CUSTOMS
UNIT AND DIDN'T RUB HIS NOSE IN
IT.
HE GAVE HIM THE LIFELINE HE
NEEDS.
NOBODY KNOWS WHAT PRIVATE
ASSURANCES WERE GIVEN AND NOBODY
NOPES HOW THE OPPOSITION WILL
ACT AND WHETHER THIS WILL QUELL
THEIR PROTESTERS OR NOT.
>> WHAT ARE THE PROTESTS ABOUT?
WHAT IS AT THE ROOT OF ALL OF
THIS?
>> TWO THINGS.
ONE IS ECONOMIC.
AND THE UKRAINE HAS BEEN
BATTLING THIS TERRIBLE
CORRUPTION, HUGE SUBSIDIES,
OVERSPENDING.
THAT'S ONE.
AND THE UKRAINEIONS OF THE NEW
GENERATION, THEY LOOK AT THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD, POLAND.
THE POLES JOINED THE EUROPEANS
AND LIVE A GREAT LIFE, HAVE FREY
TO SPEND AND A FLOURISHING
ECONOMY AND SAY WHY NOT US?
SO THERE'S THAT.
THERE'S A DEEPER OLD HISTORICAL
AND CULTURAL TIES BETWEEN RUSSIA
AND THE UKRAINE.
RUSSIA DOES WANT TO
RECONSTITUTE, NOT A NEW SOVIET
BLOCK BUT GROUP OF COUNTRIES
THAT ARE ECONOMICALLY
INDEPENDENT ON THEM AND ITS USED
A LOT OF ECONOMIC MUSCLE AGAINST
MOLDOVA AND UKRAINE IS THE BIG
SURPRISE.
UKRAINE AND RUSSIA GO WAY BACK
CENTURIES.
THEY ARE THE TWO ENTITIES THAT
FORMED THE SOVIET UNION IN 1922.
WHEN UKRAINE DECIDED TO BREAK
AWAY AND TO THE FATHER OF THAT
FAMILY IT WAS LIKE A BETRAYAL IN
THE FAMILY.
SO THERE'S A LOT -- FOR PUTIN,
GETTING UKRAINE IN THIS IS THE
GOLDEN PRIZE.
>> Ifill: EMOTIONAL AS WELL AS
EVERYINGTH ELSE.
TELL ME WHAT IS AT STAKE FOR THE
U.S.
THEY HAVE BEEN TALKING TO U.S.
OFFICIALS AND U.S. OFFICIALS AS
WELL, TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHERE
TO LAND IN ALL OF THIS.
>> THERE THE A LOT AT STAKE FOR
THE U.S. AND ALSO FOR THE WEST
IN GENERAL.
THAT IS, BECAUSE UKRAINE IS SUCH
A STRATEGICALLY IMPORTANT
COUNTRY, IT'S NOT HAD A COLD WAR
GOING ON ANYMORE BUT THERE'S A
GEO COMPLETE KILL WAR BETWEEN
THE WAY OF LIFE.
THE MORE PERSONAL FREEDOMS OF
THE WEST IN WESTERN EUROPE AND
NOW THE WESTERN PART OF EASTERN
EUROPE, AND THEN THERE'S A GROUP
AROUND RUSSIA THAT IS MORE
AUTHORITARIAN, FEWER PERSONAL
FREEDOMS, MORE CONTROLLED
ECONOMY AND A LOT OF CORRUPTION.
SO IF THE WEST COULD MANAGE TO
REORIENT UKRAINE TOWARD THE EU,
TO TAKING THE TOUGH STEPS THEY
WILL HAVE TO, TO GET IMF LOANS
WHICH IS WHAT THEY WILL HAVE TO
DO, A LOT OF ECONOMIC PAIN BUT
THAT COULD HAVE A REACH REGION
ON THE REGION AND RUSSIA.
>> IT'S INTERESTING.
WE JUST SAW IN YOUR PIECE THAT
YANUKOVICH SAID WHAT THEY WANTED
TO HEAR, AND $15 MILLION OR
BILLION?
>> BILLION.
>> HE IS TELLING RUSSIA WHAT
THEY WANT TO HEAR.
HOW DO THEY READ HIM HERE.
>> BOTH EUROPEANS AND AMERICANS
FEEL THE SAME WAY.
THE SWEDISH PRIME MINISTER
CALLED HIM A TWO FACE.
BUT THE U.S. OFFICIALS AND
EUROPEAN OFFICIALS SAY WHEN YOU
GET IN A MEETING WITH HIM, FIRST
OF ALL, HE IS V OBSESSED WITH
OLD GRIEVANCES AND THE EU DIDN'T
COME THROUGH THE WAY THEY SHOULD
HAVE DIDN'T GIVE HIM ENOUGH
MONEY AND THANK YOU DON'T UPS
THE PRESSURE HE IS UNDER, AND
RUSSIA IS ESSENTIALLY SAYING, WE
ARE RUINING YOU IF YOU GO THIS
TRECKS, SO IT'S TOUGH TO STAND
UP TO THAT.
BUT MORE FUNDAMENTALLY, THEY
DON'T THINK HE IS A MAN THAT IS
LEGAL THINKING ABOUT THE FUTURE
OF THIS COUNTRY AND THE LONG
RUN, THAT HE IS VERY PREOCCUPIED
WITH HIMSELF, HIS POLITICAL
FUTURE, HE WANTS TO RUN FOR
RE-ELECTION AND IT IS ALLEGED,
THE INCREDIBLE CORRUPTION RACKET
THAT HE AND HIS FAMILY HAVE
GOING.
SO --
>> IS IT ME OR DOES IT SOUND
LIKE A PIANO STAND, THE SAME
REATILONSHIPS.
>> THE BIG QUESTION IS HOW DOES
YANUKOVICH SELL ISTH WHEN HE
GETS HOME.
DOES HE SAY, NOW WE CAN PAY OUR
DEBTS BUT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
DOWN THE PATH -- OR DOES HE JUST
SAY, TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT?
>>
AND HE SAID TODAY I HAD NO
ALTERNATIVE BUT TO SIGN THIS.
AND SECONDLY HOW DO THESE
PROTESTERS REACT.
THE U.S. HAS BEEN A LOT OF TIME
AND ENERGY WORKING WITH THEM TO
STICK TOGETHER, KEEP IT
MODERATE, NOT MAKE EXCESSIVE
DEMANDS.
THEY HAVE KEPT IT VERY, VERY
WELL CONTROLLED.
BUT THERE'S A LONG WINTER AHEAD.
IS SOMETHING VITAL GOING TO
HAPPEN?
ANYTHING COULD HAPPEN.
>> I KNOW YOU'RE KEEPING YOUR
FINGER ON THE PULSE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
CIRCUMSTANCES, A SENTENCE LAWYER
DENNIS MUNOZ ESTANLEY PLANS TO
>> Woodruff: NOW, TO EL
SALVADOR, HOME TO SOME OF THE
STRICTEST ANTI-ABORTION LAWS IN
THE WORLD.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
FRED DE SAM LAZARO REPORTS ON
WHAT IT MEANS FOR WOMEN THERE
WHEN ABORTION IS CONSIDERED
MURDER, WITHOUT EXCEPTION.
A VERSION OF THIS STORY
ORIGINALLY AIRED ON THE
PBS PROGRAM "RELIGION AND ETHICS
NEWSWEEKLY."
>> Reporter: FARM LABORER ELIAS
CRUZ, AN AGRICULTURAL LABORER,
TOOK THE DAY OFF RECENTLY TO
VISIT HIS DAUGHTER'S PRO BONO
ATTORNEY.
>> ( translated ): I WAS JUST
TALKING TO HER.
SHE FEELS HER CASE HAS BEEN
ABANDONED.
THEY DID NOT INVESTIGATE AS THEY
SHOULD HAVE TO GET CONCRETE
EVIDENCE.
>> Reporter: 19-YEAR-OLD GLENDA
CRUZ WAS RECENTLY SENTENCED TO
TEN YEARS IN PRISON AFTER HER
PREGNANCY ENDED UNDER SUSPICIOUS
CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> MAYBE IT'S BECAUSE SHE IS IN
PRISON THAT SHE IS WAS ALONE.
>> ACROSS TOWN AT THE MEDICAL
LEGAL DEPARTMENT, DR. JOSE
MAGONYA HAS NO DOUBT THIS WAS A
CASE OF INFANTICIDE.
>> SHE IS IN PRISON BECAUSE OF
AN ABORTION.
IT'S ABSOLUTELY FALSE WHAT SHE
SAID.
WHAT HAPPENS IS, WHEN SOMEONE
MURDERS SOMEONE ELSE, HE OR SHE
DOESN'T TURN UP ON THE TV AND
SAY I'M GUILTY OF MURDER.
MAYBE THERE HAS BEEN A MISTAKE.
BUT IN MOST CASES, THEY ARE
GUILTY.
>> LINDA CRUISES IS ONE OF
SEVERAL CASES THAT HAVE COME
UNDER PUBLIC SCRUTINY IN THE
DEBATE OF ONE OF THE WORLD'S
MOST STRINGENT ABORTION LAWS.
SINCE 1977 IT HAS BEEN ILLEGAL
IN EL SALVADOR EXCEPT FOR THREAT
TO THE MOTHER'S LIFE, RAIN OR
INSENT.
DOZENS OF WOMEN'S HAVE BEEN
PROSECUTED FOR ABORTION, IN SOME
CASES FOR AGGRAVATED HOMICIDE
THE.
THE CHANGE REFLECTS A CHANGE IN
THE CATHOLIC COUNTRY OF A GROUP
CALLED "YES TO LIFE" AND CHURCH
LEADERSHIP WITH CLOSE ALLIES IN
THE REPUBLICAN ALLIANCE PARTY,
WHICH ROSE TO POWER AFTER THE
CIVIL WAR ENDED IN 1992.
MIGUEL AQUINO IS BISHOP OF THE
CITY OF SAN MIGUEL.
>> WE CANNOT ACCEPT ANY LAW THAT
GOES AGAINST LIFE.
IT IS NOT A QUESTION OF FAITH
AND RELIGION BUT OF HUMANITY.
>> MANY DOCTORS SAY THE LAW HAS
PUT THEM IN A VERY DIFFICULT
POSITION.
OBSTETRICIAN, JORGE CRUISE SAID
THEY CANNOT INTERVENE WITH A
WOMAN'S HEALTH EVEN IF HER
PREGNANCY HAS NO CHANCE OF
COMING TO TERM.
>> THE LAW DOES NOT PERMIT US TO
END PREGNANCIES THAT ARE
UNVIABLE, AS LONG AS THERE'S A
HEART BEAT.
OFTEN THERE'S HEMORRHAGE AND
WOMEN DIE FROM THE SHOCK.
>> HE AND COLLEAGUES FEEL MANY
DRESS, PARTICULARLY JUNIOR ONES
ARE BEING INTIMIDATED INTO
BETRAYING PATIENT
CONFIDENTIALITY FOR FEAR THEY
COULD BE PROSECUTED AS
ACCESSORIES.
>> IN THE PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM,
PATIENTS COMING IN AFTER AN
ABORTION, WHETHER SELF INFLECTED
OR SEPTIC, PROVIDERS WERE TOLD
THEY HAD TO REPORT THE PATIENTS
FOR PROSECUTION.
>> BUT MEDICAL LEGAL OFFICER
MAGONIA SAID THE DOCTORS' FEARS
ARE EXAGGERATED.
>> THE STATISTICS OF THE DOCTORS
IN JAIL BECAUSE OF THE CRIME OF
ABORTION IS ZERO.
>> Reporter: IN TRULY DIRE
CIRCUMSTANCES, HE SAYS DOCTORS
CAN SAVE A WOMAN'S LIFE.
HE POINTS TO THE DAYS OF A
22-YEAR-OLD WOMAN WHOSE CASE
DREW INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION AND
SKIRTS THE LAW.
KNOWN AS BEATRICE SHE WAS
SUFFERING FROM LUPUS SYNDROME
AND KIDNEY FAILURE.
SHE WAS PREGNANT WITH A SEVERELY
DEFORMED FETUS THAT COULD NOT
SURVIVE OUTSIDE OF THE WOMB.
AFTER DELIBERATING FOR SEVERAL
WEEKS AND AT 26 WEEKS INTO THE
PREGNANCY, EL SALVADOR'S SUPREME
COURT DENIED A PETITION FOR AN
ABORTION.
A DECISION THAT DREW WIDESPREAD
PROTESTS.
THE COURT UPHELD THE
RECOMMENDATION OF 14MAGONIA'S
OFFICE.
DOCTORS WERE THEN ALLOWED TO
PERFORM A CESAREAN SECTION, THAT
IN THE DOCTORS REVIEW RESPECTED
THE INFANT'S RIGHT TO LIFE.
>> THE DEPARTMENT OF LEGAL
MEDICINE SAID BEATRICE WASN'T AT
IMMINENT RISK.
WE WERE RIGHT.
TIME WENT ON AND SHE CONTINUED
WITH HER PREGNCY.AN
THE BABY WAS DELIVERED.
HE LIVED FOR EIGHT HOURS AND
THEN HE DIED.
>> BUT THE WEEK'S LONG ORDEAL
HARMED THE MOTHER'S HEALTH AND
CAUSED BEATRICE NEEDLESS
SUFFERING SAY THESE
OBSTETRICIANS.
>> ONE OF THE CONSEQUENCES OF
ALL OF THIS IS THAT
CONSULTATIONS WITH WOMEN IN
THESE SITUATIONS HAVE GONE WAY
DUNE AND THAT TREATS EVEN MORE
COMPLICATED CASES.
>> FOR SOME WOMEN WHOSE
PREGNANCIES FAIL, IT'S BEEN
DIFFICULT TO PROVE THAT THEY
HAVE NOT BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR
MISCARRYING.
ABOUT NINE YEARS AGO, CHRISTINA
QUAN TI. INIA WAS CLOSE TO TERM
AND SHE SAID SHE SUFFERED A
MISCARRIAGE.
>> I SAT ON THE TOILET AND I
FELT A STRONG PAIN.
NEXT THING I KNOW I'M IN THE
HOSPITAL.
>> HER MOTHER CALLED THE POLICE,
A COMMON PRACTICE IN EMERGENCIES
HERE BECAUSE AMBULANCES ARE
UNRELIABLE.
A CALL SHE FEARS WAS CONSTRUED
AS A COMPLAINT.
>> IT WAS VERY DEPRESSING WHEN I
RELEASED WHAT I DID.
WE WERE SCARED THAT SHE COULD
DIE.
THE AUTHORITIES MISINTERPRETED
IT.
>> I WAS DIZZY BECAUSE OF THE
ANESTHESIA AND BLOOD LOSS AND I
SAW A MAN IN BLUE ASKING FOR MY
NAME.
HE SAID YOU'RE UNDER ARREST FOR
THE MURDER OF YOUR CHILD.
>> SHE WAS SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS
FOR AGGRAVATED HOMICIDE, EVEN
THOUGH SHE SAID THE AUTOPSY WAS
RULED INCONCLUSIVE.
HER SENTENCE WAS EVENTUALLY
COMMUTED TO TIME SERVED.
FOUR HELLISH YEARS, SHE SAYS.
>> I FELT SO TERRIBLE BECAUSE
THE PROSECUTOR WOULD KEEP
POINTING AT ME AND SAYING, SHE
KILLED HER BABY, SHE KILLED HER
BABY!
IF YOU GO TO PRISON FOR AN
ABORTION, THEY BEAT YOU UP AND
IT'S NOT JUST ME.
THERE ARE OTHER WOMEN IN THERE.
>> Reporter: INCLUDING GLENDA
CRUISE.
LAURA REPRESENTED BOTH WOMEN AND
HOPES TO GET A SIMILAR SITUATION
FOR CRUISE.
>> I DON'T THINK SHE IS CAPABLE
OF WHAT SHE IS ACCUSED OF.
SHE S. NOT VIOLENT AND WAS
RAISED WITH CHRISTIAN MORALS.
WE TRIED TO TALK TO THE
PROSECUTORS IN THE CLUES' CASE.
THE DEFENSE ATTORNEY HAS MANAGED
TO FREE EIGHT WOMEN JAILED IN
ABORTION CASES.
>> IN MOST OF THESE CASES, THESE
ARE POOR WOMEN, WOMEN WITH NOT
VERY MUCH EDUCATION.
SOMETIMES THERE ARE CASES OF
WOMEN WHO ARE LITERATE.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER
BEFORE 1998 THERAPEUTIC
ABORTIONS AND ABORTIONS OF
DEFORMED FETUSES OR FOR RAIN
WERE ALLOWED AND NOW IT'S NOT
THE SAME POLITICAL CLIMATE.
>> BISHOP AQUINO SID THE
CONSERVATIVE CLIMATE IS A
BACKLASH AGAINST FEMINIST GROUPS
THAT TRIED TO IMPOSE LIBERAL
SOCIAL LEGISLATION THAT IS
CONTRARY TO THE CULTURE HERE.
BEATRICE WAS THE LATEST SUCH
INTERFERENCE, HE SAYS.
>> THEY WANT TO PROMOTE
THERAPEUTIC ABORTION.
THIS WOULD OPEN THE WINDOW TO
OTHER KINDS OF ABORTIONS, THEN
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE AND ADOPTING
CHILDREN BY HOMOSEXUALS OR
LESBIANS.
RECENT POLLS SHOW MOST SAL
DORIANS OPPOSE ABORTION BUT
SUPPORT SOME ELECTIONS.
HOWEVER WITH THE ELECTIONS
MOVING NEXT YEAR, POLITICAL
ANALYSTS SAY IT'S TOUTFUL THERE
WILL BE ANY CHANGES TO THE LAWS
GOVERNING ABORTION ANY TIME
SOON.
>>
>> Woodruff: FRED'S REPORTING IS
A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-
TOLD STORIES PROJECT AT SAINT
MARY'S UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
>> Ifill: "MASTERPIECE" IS A PBS
CROWN JEWEL, AND, FOR 25 YEARS
AND COUNTING, REBECCA EATON HAS
BEEN AT ITS HELM.
NOW, SHE'S WRITTEN A BOOK ABOUT
BRINGING BRITISH DRAMA TO THE
AMERICAN SCREEN.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION.
>> IT'S THE LONGEST-RUNNING
WEEKLY PRIME TIME SERIES IN THE
COUNTRY AND MOST HONORED.
17 PEABODYS AND 57 EMMYS TO ITS
CREDIT.
UPSTAIRS DOWNSTAIRS PUT
MASTERPIECE THEATER ON THE MAP
IN 1974.
OTHER BRITISH DRAMAS FOLLOWED.
>> GOOD EVENING.
M AI'LISTAIR COOKE.
>> EACH PROGRAM INTRODUCED BY A
HOST WITH ALISTAIR COOKE HOLDING
THE POSITION FOR 22 YEARS.
>> WHAT'S BECOME OF HIM?
>> WHAT BECOMES OF ANYBODY?
>> THE SERIES HELPED LAUNCH THE
AMERICAN CAREERS OF MANY WELL
RENOWNED BRITISH ACTORS.
>> SHE WAS MURDERED, MICHAEL.
SHE WAS FOUND IN A PROSTITUTE'S
EXETER.
NOW I WANT YOU TO LOOK AT THIS
PHOTOGRAPH.
>> PRESUMABLY THEY THOUGHT YOU
WERE.
NOW LOOK HERE -- EXCUSE ME.
>> Reporter: SEVERAL YEARS AGO
MASTERPIECE UPDATED ITS LOOK AND
MOVED INTO THREE PARTS, CLASSIC,
MYSTERY AND CONTEMPORARY.
>> AND IT'S NOW OF COURSE WITH
DOWNTOWN ABBEY, THE HIGHEST PBS
DRAMA OF ALL TIME.
BEHIND THE SCENES FOR THE LAST
25 YEARS, REBECCA EATON, AUTHOR
OF "MAKING MASTERPIECE."
>> REBECCA JOINS US NOW.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOU START THE BOOK WITH AN
ANECDOTE ABOUT HOW YOU FIRST
SAID NO THANKS TO A PROPOSAL
ABOUT A NEW DRAMA WITH A BRITISH
ARISTOCRATIC FAMILY.
>> BIG HOUSE, PEOPLE DOWNSTAIRS
AND UPSTAIRS.
IT WAS DOWNTOWN ABBEY AND I DID
SAY NO.
>> BUT THE REST IS HISTORY.
>> I WAS LUCKY.
IN TELEVISION ANGEL MUST HAVE
BEEN SITTING ON MY SHOULDER
BECAUSE IT MADE THE ROUNDS OF
OTHER INFORMATION EXECUTIVES AND
THEY SAID NO.
I DIDN'T SAY NO BECAUSE I DIDN'T
LIKE IT; WE JUST HAD TOO MUCH
THAT YEAR.
AND THEN I HEARD THAT MAGGIE
SMITH HAD BEEN CAST AND
ELIZABETH McGOVERN WHO PLAYS
LADY CORA AND SAID IT'S VERY
GOOD.
SO I PICKED UP THE PHONE.
>> THIS WAS ANGEL QUESTION THAT
SORT OF GOES TO -- I STEELE ONE
OF THE TITLES OF YOUR CHAPTERS
WHICH IS WHAT DOES AN EXECUTIVE
PRODUCER DO ALL DAY IN A ANYWAY.
IN MAKING MASTERPIECE HOW DO YOU
DEFINE YOUR ROLE?
>> I'M THE PERSON THAT TRIES TO
NOT CHOOSE THE BAD BRITISH
PROGRAMS.
THAT'S A DOUBLE NEGATIVE.
YOU TRY TO AVOID THE BAD GLUNS
BUT I SAVED THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
THESE PROGRAMS ARE MADE IN
ENGLAND.
THEY ARE MADE BY, I THINK, SOME
OF THE BEST DRAMA PRODUCES AND
WRITERS AND ACTORS IN THE WORLD
AND WE ARE THEIR AMERICAN
PARTNERS.
SO MY JOB IS TO READ THE
SCRIPTS, TAKE THE PICTURES AND
TRY TO CHOOSE THE ONES THAT I
THINK WILL WORK BEST FOR
MASTERPIECE AND BEST OFTEN THE
AIR, AND SOMETIMES I GET IT
RIGHT.
>> WELL, ON THE MYSTERIOUS
PROCESS OF GETTING IT RIGHT OR
WRONG, IS IT AN I KNOW IT WHEN I
SEE IT KIND OF THING?
>> IT IS QUITE SUBJECTIVE, I
HAVE TOO SAY, KIND OF SEAT OF
THE PANTS PROGRAMMING, AND
LITTLE BIT OF EXPERIENCE GOES A
LONGWAY AND I HAVE BEEN DOING IT
NOW FOR 26, 27 YEARS, AND WE
WATCH THE RATINGS.
WE KNOW WHAT THE AUDIENCE LIKES.
SO THERE AREN'T FOCUS GROUPS.
WE HAVE A VERY SMALL SHOP.
BUT WE GET TO KNOW THE PLAYERS
AND WHAT WORKS.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF I SHOULD
START WITH WHAT WORKS.
I ALWAYS WANT TO HEAR WHAT --
>> WHAT DOESN'T WORK?
I DON'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT THAT.
THERE HAVE BEEN A FEW.
I'M A SUCKER FOR ACTORS, FOR
GOOD ACTORS.
AND SOMETIMES I CAN CONVINCE
MYSELF THAT A NOT VERY GOOD
SCRIPT OR NOD VERY GOOD STORY IS
GOING TO BE GREAT BECAUSE
SOMEBODY SO IN IT.
WE ACTUALLY DID HAVE COLLIN
FERTH OF "PRIDE AND PREJUDICE"
DIS234 SOMETHING CALLED
NOSTROMO.
IT WAS A GOOD BOOK BUT IT JUST
SAT THERE AS A DRAMA.
THAT'S ONE OF THE ONES NOT MANY
PEOPLE LIKE.
>> YOU MENTIONED COLLIN AND IT'S
FUNNY BECAUSE YOU SAID PEOPLE
GET CONFUSED WITH "PRIDE AND
PREJUDICE" DIS,WHICH WAS HIS
GREAT VEHICLE FOR AMERICAN
PUBLIC.
BUT PEOPLE COME UP TO YOU AND
SAY THAT WAS INCREDIBLE, BUT
THAT WAS NOT A MASTERPIECE
PROGRAM.
>> IT WAS NOT.
>> IT WAS ALONE ANOTHER NETWORK
BUT I SAY THANK YOU.
>> BUT THAT GOES TO YOUR
CREATING THIS MASTERPIECE,
CREATING A GENRE FOR AMERICAN
AUDIENCES.
I THINK IT WAS BORN, MASTERPIECE
WAS BORN IN 1971.  PBS WAS ONLY
A COUPLE OF YEARS OLD.
AS I SAY IN THE BOOK, YOU KNOW,
THE FIRST FOUR SITE SAGA HAD
JUST AIRED AND SUDDENLY THERE
WAS ABOUT APPETITE FOR BRITISH
DRAMA AND THERE WERE SHELVES OF
PROGRAMS.
SO PEOPLE AT WGBH IN BOSTON AND
AT MOBIL OIL REALIZED THIS WAS A
HUGE OPPORTUNITY.
THERE WAS ONLY JULIA CHILD ON
PUBLIC TELEVISION THEN AND SOME
LECTURES, SO THEY STARTED BUYING
THE ALREADY PRODUCED PROGRAMS,
AND THE AUDIENCE COMPLETELY
TURNED UP.
SO NOW WE HAVE TO JUST KEEP
FEED.
>> WHEN IT COMES TO A DOWNTOWN
ABBEY, WHY IS IT SUCH A HIT?
>> MAN, IF I KNEW THAT, I WOULD
CERTAINLY NOT TELL YOU, FOR ONE
THING.
AND JULIENNE FELLOWS WHO CREATED
DOWN TON IS ASKED THAT ALL THE
TIME AND HEESN'T KNOW.
I TELL THE STORY IN THE BOOK B.
WHEN HE WAS A LITTLE BOY HIS
MOTHER USED TO TURN THE KITCHEN
OVER TO HIM.
ONE TIME SHE TURNED THE KITCHEN
OVER TO HIM AND HE MADE THE MOST
FANTASTIC CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS.
AND SHE SAID, JULIENNE HOW DID
YOU DO IT?
CAN YOU DO IT AGAIN?
AND HE NEVER COULD.
SO IT'S LITTLE BIT OF MAGIC.
HE WAS READY TO DO IT, JULIENNE,
AND HE WAS TO THE MATTERHORN AND
I THINK HE UNDERSTOOD THE
CHARACTERS AND KNEW WHAT THEY
WOULD BE BECAUSE HE HAD THEM IN
HIS OWN FAMILY TRUE TREE AND I
THINK -- MY THEORY ABOUT IT IS
THAT IF A PERFECT TELEVISION
PRECINCT DRAMA BUT THERE'S A
CERTAIN GOODNESS OF
"ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT" TO ALL
OF THESE CHARACTERIZE AND I
THINK THAT HAS BEEN MISSING IN
TELEVISION, BRITISH AND.
>> Rooney: WE ARE GOING TO TALK
MORE ABOUT DOWNTOWN ABBEY AND
OTHER THINGS AND WE WILL DO THAT
ONLINE.
FOR NOW THE BOOK IS "MAKING
MASTERPIECE."
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS JEFF.
>> Woodruff: NOW, TURNING TO
TINY APARTMENTS IN BIG CITIES
WHERE MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE
LIVING ALONE.
CORRESPONDENT MONA ISKANDER HAS
OUR STORY.
IT FIRST AIRED ON THE WEEKEND
EDITN OF THE NEWSHOUR.
>> IT'S ABOUT 260 SQUARE FE
AND EVERYTHING IS REALLY
COMPACT.
IT'S GOT TO BE MULTIFUNCTIONAL.
>> Reporter: SHAWN GROFF IS A
26-YEAR-OLD EMPLOYEE AT WHOLE
FOODS WHO LIVES IN A BUILDING
THAT CONSISTS SOLELY OF WHAT ARE
KNOWN AS MICRO-APARTMENTS.
>> WE'RE STANDING IN EVERY ROOM.
WE'RE STANDING IN MY KITCHEN,
LIVING ROOM, DINING ROOM AND MY
BATHROOM IS JUST AROUND THE
CORNER.
>> Reporter: HIS DINING ROOM
TABLE IS ALSO HIS BED.
FOR ABOUT $950 A MONTH, HE
SQUARE FOOT SPACE.
LEARNS TO MAKE DO WITH HIS 260-
>> IF I HAVE COMPANY AND I NEED
SQUARE FOOT SPACE.
ANOTHER CHAIR, I CAN USE MY
>> IF I HAVE COMPANY AND I NEED
COFFEE TABLE AGAIN AND MAYBE
ANOTHER CHAIR, I CAN USE MY
EVEN PAT IT DOWN AND THEY CAN
COFFEE TABLE AGAIN AND MAYBE
ENJOY AS WELL.
EVEN PAT IT DOWN AND THEY CAN
THIS IS A SOLUTION FOR PEOPLE
ENJOY AS WELL.
LIKE MYSELF, PERHAPS IN THE
THIS IS A SOLUTION FOR PEOPLE
STAGE OF MY LIFE WHERE I DON'T
LIKE MYSELF, PERHAPS IN THE
HAVE THAT MANY THINGS AND DON'T
STAGE OF MY LIFE WHERE I DON'T
NEED THAT MUCH SPACE.
HAVE THAT MANY THINGS AND DON'T
I'M NOT REALLY HOME THAT OFTEN.
NEED THAT MUCH SPACE.
YOU ASK YOURSELF WHAT YOU REALLY
I'M NOT REALLY HOME THAT OFTEN.
NEED, AND, IF YOU'RE HONEST
YOU ASK YOURSELF WHAT YOU REALLY
ABOUT THAT, A LOT OF THINGS
NEED, AND, IF YOU'RE HONEST
BECOME UNNECESSARY.
ABOUT THAT, A LOT OF THINGS
>> Reporter: HE HAPPENS TO LIVE
BECOME UNNECESSARY.
IN VANCOUVER, CANADA, ONE OF THE
>> Reporter: HE HAPPENS TO LIVE
FIRST NORTH AMERICAN CITIES TO
IN VANCOUVER, CANADA, ONE OF THE
EMBRACE THE TINY LIVING CONCEPT.
FIRST NORTH AMERICAN CITIES TO
BUT THE IDEA IS CATCHING ON IN A
EMBRACE THE TINY LIVING CONCEPT.
NUMBER OF CITIES IN THE UNITED
BUT THE IDEA IS CATCHING ON IN A
STATES, AS WELL, LIKE SEATTLE,
NUMBER OF CITIES IN THE UNITED
SAN FRANCISCO, NEW YORK, BOSTON,
STATES, AS WELL, LIKE SEATTLE,
WASHINGTON, D.C., PROVIDENCE AND
SAN FRANCISCO, NEW YORK, BOSTON,
CLEVELAND.
WASHINGTON, D.C., PROVIDENCE AND
THEY'VE ALL BEEN PURSUING
CLEVELAND.
PROJECTS TO DEVELOP THIS NEW
THEY'VE ALL BEEN PURSUING
MODEL.
PROJECTS TO DEVELOP THIS NEW
IT'S AN IDEA MAY BE NEW TO NORTH
MODEL.
AMERICA, BUT COUNTRIES LIKE
IT'S AN IDEA MAY BE NEW TO NORTH
JAPAN HAVE FOR YEARS LOOKED TO
AMERICA, BUT COUNTRIES LIKE
MICRO APARTMENTS AS A SOLUTION
JAPAN HAVE FOR YEARS LOOKED TO
TO HIGH URBAN DENSITY.
MICRO APARTMENTS AS A SOLUTION
>> THERE'S VERY LITTLE HOUSING
TO HIGH URBAN DENSITY.
RESTRICTIONS IN TOKYO.
>> THERE'S VERY LITTLE HOUSING
SO, THE HOUSING REALLY DOES
RESTRICTIONS IN TOKYO.
CORRESPOND WITH THE POPULATION
SO, THE HOUSING REALLY DOES
NEED.
CORRESPOND WITH THE POPULATION
>> Reporter: SARAH WATSON IS THE
NEED.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF A NON-PROFIT
>> Reporter: SARAH WATSON IS THE
RESEARCH GROUP IN NEW YORK, THE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF A NON-PROFIT
CITIZENS HOUSING AND PLANNING
RESEARCH GROUP IN NEW YORK, THE
COUNCIL.
CITIZENS HOUSING AND PLANNING
FOR THE LAST FIVE YEARS, THE
COUNCIL.
ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN STUDYING
FOR THE LAST FIVE YEARS, THE
NEW CONCEPTS IN HOUSING.
ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN STUDYING
WATSON SAYS THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
NEW CONCEPTS IN HOUSING.
LIVING BY THEMSELVES IN THE
WATSON SAYS THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
UNITED STATES HAS INCREASED
LIVING BY THEMSELVES IN THE
DRAMATICALLY.
UNITED STATES HAS INCREASED
IN THE '40s AND '50s, IT WAS
DRAMATICALLY.
LESS THAN 10%.
IN THE '40s AND '50s, IT WAS
TOY, TDAHAT POPULATION IS CLOSER
LESS THAN 10%.
TO 30%.
TOY, TDAHAT POPULATION IS CLOSER
PEOPLE ARE GETTING MARRIED
TO 30%.
LATER, GETTING DIVORCED AT
PEOPLE ARE GETTING MARRIED
HIGHER RATES THAN THEY ONCE DID
LATER, GETTING DIVORCED AT
AND ARE LIVING LONGER.
HIGHER RATES THAN THEY ONCE DID
AND WATSON SAYS SUPPLY OF
AND ARE LIVING LONGER.
HOUSING FOR SINGLE PEOPLE HASN'T
AND WATSON SAYS SUPPLY OF
KEPT UP WITH THIS CHANGING
HOUSING FOR SINGLE PEOPLE HASN'T
DEMOGRAPHIC.
KEPT UP WITH THIS CHANGING
>> IF THE POPULATION CHANGES BUT
DEMOGRAPHIC.
THERE'S NOT HOUSING SUPPLY TO
>> IF THE POPULATION CHANGES BUT
FOLLOW, WHAT HAPPENS IS PEOPLE
THERE'S NOT HOUSING SUPPLY TO
START GOING UNDERGROUND AND
FOLLOW, WHAT HAPPENS IS PEOPLE
LIVING INFORMALLY.
START GOING UNDERGROUND AND
AND THAT'S WHY YOU SEE THIS HUGE
LIVING INFORMALLY.
GROWTH IN THE CRAIGSLIST MARKET,
AND THAT'S WHY YOU SEE THIS HUGE
PEOPLE TRYING TO MAKE ROOM IN
GROWTH IN THE CRAIGSLIST MARKET,
HOUSING STOCK THAT'S NOT
PEOPLE TRYING TO MAKE ROOM IN
DESIGNED FOR IT.
HOUSING STOCK THAT'S NOT
>> Reporter: AND THE PROBLEM IS
DESIGNED FOR IT.
ONLY GOING TO GET WORSE.
>> Reporter: AND THE PROBLEM IS
FOR INSTANCE, NEW YORK'S
ONLY GOING TO GET WORSE.
POPULATION IS EXPECTED TO RISE
FOR INSTANCE, NEW YORK'S
BY APPROXIMATELY 600,000 PEOPLE
POPULATION IS EXPECTED TO RISE
BY THE YEAR 2030.
BY APPROXIMATELY 600,000 PEOPLE
THAT'S ABOUT AN 8% INCREASE.
BY THE YEAR 2030.
>> WE CAN'T JUST KEEP BUILDING
THAT'S ABOUT AN 8% INCREASE.
TALLER BUILDINGS, SO THERE HAS
>> WE CAN'T JUST KEEP BUILDING
TO BE SOME NEW WAYS TO
TALLER BUILDINGS, SO THERE HAS
ACCOMMODATE THESE PEOPLE WITHIN
TO BE SOME NEW WAYS TO
IT.
ACCOMMODATE THESE PEOPLE WITHIN
SO, THIS WHOLE SPACE IS 325
IT.
SQUARE FEET.
SO, THIS WHOLE SPACE IS 325
>> Reporter: SO, HER
SQUARE FEET.
ORGANIZATION LOBBIED TO CONVINCE
>> Reporter: SO, HER
MAYOR MICHAEL BLOOMBERG'S
ORGANIZATION LOBBIED TO CONVINCE
ADMINISTRATION TO CONSIDER NEW
MAYOR MICHAEL BLOOMBERG'S
TYPES OF HOUSING IN NEW YORK,
ADMINISTRATION TO CONSIDER NEW
INCLUDING MICRO-APARTMENTS LIKE
TYPES OF HOUSING IN NEW YORK,
THIS ONE ON DISPLAY AT A RECENT
INCLUDING MICRO-APARTMENTS LIKE
EXHIBIT AT THE MUSEUM OF THE
THIS ONE ON DISPLAY AT A RECENT
CITY OF NEW YORK.
EXHIBIT AT THE MUSEUM OF THE
>> THIS IS FOR BIG CITIES,
CITY OF NEW YORK.
PARTICULARLY CITIES THAT ATTRACT
>> THIS IS FOR BIG CITIES,
YOUNG PEOPLE.
PARTICULARLY CITIES THAT ATTRACT
GOING TO BE A VERY BIG PROBLEM
YOUNG PEOPLE.
COMING DOWN THE ROAD, AND THIS
GOING TO BE A VERY BIG PROBLEM
IS THE FIRST STEP THAT WE'RE
COMING DOWN THE ROAD, AND THIS
TAKING TO TRY TO FIND A
IS THE FIRST STEP THAT WE'RE
SOLUTION.
TAKING TO TRY TO FIND A
>> Reporter: IN A CITY WHERE
SOLUTION.
SPACE IS AT A PREMIUM, MAYOR
>> Reporter: IN A CITY WHERE
BLOOMBERG LAUNCHED A PILOT
SPACE IS AT A PREMIUM, MAYOR
PROJECT TO BE DEVELOPED ON CITY-
BLOOMBERG LAUNCHED A PILOT
OWNED LAND ON MANHATTAN'S EAST
PROJECT TO BE DEVELOPED ON CITY-
SIDE.
OWNED LAND ON MANHATTAN'S EAST
EACH OF THE 55 PREFAB UNITS WILL
SIDE.
BE HOUSED IN A SINGLE BUILDING,
EACH OF THE 55 PREFAB UNITS WILL
AND EACH WILL BE LESS THAN 400-
BE HOUSED IN A SINGLE BUILDING,
SQUARE-FEET.
AND EACH WILL BE LESS THAN 400-
IN ORDER TO DO THAT, MAYOR
SQUARE-FEET.
BLOOMBERG SAID HE WOULD WAIVE
IN ORDER TO DO THAT, MAYOR
ZONING REGULATIONS PUT IN PLACE
BLOOMBERG SAID HE WOULD WAIVE
IN THE 1980s TO PROTECT AGAINST
ZONING REGULATIONS PUT IN PLACE
OVERCROWDING.
IN THE 1980s TO PROTECT AGAINST
CONSTRUCTION IS SET TO BEGIN
OVERCROWDING.
THIS DECEMBER OR JANUARY.
CONSTRUCTION IS SET TO BEGIN
SO, IT'S BASICALLY AN
THIS DECEMBER OR JANUARY.
EXPERIMENT.
SO, IT'S BASICALLY AN
>> RIGHT.
EXPERIMENT.
IT'S AN EXPERIMENT.
>> RIGHT.
AND THE CITY'S USING IT TO... TO
IT'S AN EXPERIMENT.
PROPERLY TEST WHAT HAPPENS IF
AND THE CITY'S USING IT TO... TO
YOU JUST RELIEVE A FEW ELEMENTS,
PROPERLY TEST WHAT HAPPENS IF
A FEW CONTROLS, REALLY TO SEE
YOU JUST RELIEVE A FEW ELEMENTS,
WHAT THE OPTIONS COULD BE.
A FEW CONTROLS, REALLY TO SEE
>> Reporter: NEW YORK'S MICRO-
WHAT THE OPTIONS COULD BE.
UNIT BUILDING WILL REQUIRE THAT
>> Reporter: NEW YORK'S MICRO-
40% OF THE UNITS ARE RENTED AT
UNIT BUILDING WILL REQUIRE THAT
AN "AFFORDABLE" RATE.
40% OF THE UNITS ARE RENTED AT
THIS BEING NEW YORK, THE WORD
AN "AFFORDABLE" RATE.
"AFFORDABLE" IS RELATIVE.
THIS BEING NEW YORK, THE WORD
THE RENT FOR THOSE TINY
"AFFORDABLE" IS RELATIVE.
SUBSIDIZED APARTMENTS WILL BE
THE RENT FOR THOSE TINY
BETWEEN $940 AND $1,800 A MONTH.
SUBSIDIZED APARTMENTS WILL BE
THAT'S ACTUALLY QUITE LOW FOR
BETWEEN $940 AND $1,800 A MONTH.
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THAT'S ACTUALLY QUITE LOW FOR
>> THIS, FOR MANY CITIES, THIS
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
IS ACTUALLY A SELLING POINT.
>> THIS, FOR MANY CITIES, THIS
>> Reporter: JOHN INFRANCA IS A
IS ACTUALLY A SELLING POINT.
LAW PROFESSOR AT SUFFOLK
>> Reporter: JOHN INFRANCA IS A
UNIVERSITY IN BOSTON, WHO
LAW PROFESSOR AT SUFFOLK
STUDIES AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
UNIVERSITY IN BOSTON, WHO
LAND USE POLICY.
STUDIES AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
>> I THINK IT'S GOOD FOR CITIES
LAND USE POLICY.
IN TERMS OF BEING ABLE TO RETAIN
>> I THINK IT'S GOOD FOR CITIES
YOUNG PROFESSIONALS, RECENT
IN TERMS OF BEING ABLE TO RETAIN
COLLEGE GRADUATES WHO MIGHT
YOUNG PROFESSIONALS, RECENT
OTHERWISE BE PCED RIOUT OF THE
COLLEGE GRADUATES WHO MIGHT
CITY.
OTHERWISE BE PCED RIOUT OF THE
YOU KNOW, THAT'LL ADD A CERTAIN,
CITY.
YOU KNOW, DYNAMISM TO THE CITY.
YOU KNOW, THAT'LL ADD A CERTAIN,
BOSTON, FOR INSTANCE, IS REALLY
YOU KNOW, DYNAMISM TO THE CITY.
PUSHING THAT FRONT, THAT THEY
BOSTON, FOR INSTANCE, IS REALLY
WANT TO RETAIN THEIR RECENT
PUSHING THAT FRONT, THAT THEY
GRADUATES WHO OTHERWISE CAN'T
WANT TO RETAIN THEIR RECENT
AFFORD TO LIVE THERE.
GRADUATES WHO OTHERWISE CAN'T
AND... AND THOSE GRADUATES ARE
AFFORD TO LIVE THERE.
GOING TO BE IMPORTANT FOR THE
AND... AND THOSE GRADUATES ARE
CITY'S BROADER ECONOMY TO GROW.
GOING TO BE IMPORTANT FOR THE
>> Reporter: BUT THERE HAS BEEN
CITY'S BROADER ECONOMY TO GROW.
BACKLA.SH
>> Reporter: BUT THERE HAS BEEN
IN SEATTLE, COMMUNITY GROUPS
BACKLA.SH
HAVE VOICED CONCERNS THAT THESE
IN SEATTLE, COMMUNITY GROUPS
UNITS CROWD TOO MANY PEOPLE
HAVE VOICED CONCERNS THAT THESE
TOGETHER AND THAT THEY MAKE
UNITS CROWD TOO MANY PEOPLE
NEIGHBORHOODS LESS STABLE AS
TOGETHER AND THAT THEY MAKE
YOUNG PEOPLE COME AND GO.
NEIGHBORHOODS LESS STABLE AS
IN VANCOUVER, CRITICS WORRY THAT
YOUNG PEOPLE COME AND GO.
MICRO-APARTMENTS WILL REPLACE
IN VANCOUVER, CRITICS WORRY THAT
HOUSING FOR THE POOR.
MICRO-APARTMENTS WILL REPLACE
FOR EXAMPLE, THE APARTMENT
HOUSING FOR THE POOR.
BUILDING WHERE SHAWN GROFF LIVES
FOR EXAMPLE, THE APARTMENT
USED TO BE A SINGLE ROOM
BUILDING WHERE SHAWN GROFF LIVES
OCCUPANCY BUILDING.
USED TO BE A SINGLE ROOM
LOCALS COMPLAINED ITS RESIDENTS
OCCUPANCY BUILDING.
WERE BEING FORCED ONTO THE
LOCALS COMPLAINED ITS RESIDENTS
STREET.
WERE BEING FORCED ONTO THE
I MEAN, CRITICS SAY THAT THESE
STREET.
ARE REALLY GEARED TOWARDS YOUNG,
I MEAN, CRITICS SAY THAT THESE
HIGH-INCOME PEOPLE WHO ARE
ARE REALLY GEARED TOWARDS YOUNG,
MOVING TO THE CITY FOR THE FIRST
HIGH-INCOME PEOPLE WHO ARE
TIME.
MOVING TO THE CITY FOR THE FIRST
IT'S NOT REALLY ADDRESSING THE
TIME.
NEEDS OF LOWER-MIDDLE-INCOME
IT'S NOT REALLY ADDRESSING THE
WORKERS WHO ALSO NEED THE
NEEDS OF LOWER-MIDDLE-INCOME
HOUSING.
WORKERS WHO ALSO NEED THE
>> A LOT OF THESE PILOTS THAT
HOUSING.
ARE HAPPENING IN CITIES ARE
>> A LOT OF THESE PILOTS THAT
DEFINITELY ON THE HIGHER END
ARE HAPPENING IN CITIES ARE
BECAUSE THEY'RE HAPPENING IN
DEFINITELY ON THE HIGHER END
HIGH VALUE AREAS.
BECAUSE THEY'RE HAPPENING IN
BUT... BUT WE BELIEVE IF YOU
HIGH VALUE AREAS.
COULD REALLY THINK THROUGH THE
BUT... BUT WE BELIEVE IF YOU
DESIGN CONCEPTS OF THESE SMALL
COULD REALLY THINK THROUGH THE
SPACES AND SITUATE THEM IN OTHER
DESIGN CONCEPTS OF THESE SMALL
LOCATIONS, YOU KNOW, YOU CAN...
SPACES AND SITUATE THEM IN OTHER
YOU'RE REALLY CHANGING THE PRICE
LOCATIONS, YOU KNOW, YOU CAN...
POINT FOR THAT.
YOU'RE REALLY CHANGING THE PRICE
AND YOU CAN TARGET DIFFERENT
POINT FOR THAT.
POPULATIONS.
AND YOU CAN TARGET DIFFERENT
WE HAVE A SMALL, ONE-DRAWER
POPULATIONS.
DISHWASHER.
WE HAVE A SMALL, ONE-DRAWER
>> Reporter: AND WATSON BELIEVES
DISHWASHER.
MICRO-UNITS MAKE SENSE FOR THE
>> Reporter: AND WATSON BELIEVES
WAY MANY PEOPLE LIVE TODAY.
MICRO-UNITS MAKE SENSE FOR THE
>> THERE'S A REASON WHY THIS IS
WAY MANY PEOPLE LIVE TODAY.
CATCHING ON IN THE COUNTRY
>> THERE'S A REASON WHY THIS IS
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, YOU CAN LIVE
CATCHING ON IN THE COUNTRY
QUITE COMFORTABLY NOW WITH YOUR
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, YOU CAN LIVE
MUSIC COLLECTION AND YOUR, YOU
QUITE COMFORTABLY NOW WITH YOUR
KNOW, YOUR BOOKS ALL ON A VERY
MUSIC COLLECTION AND YOUR, YOU
TINY LAPTOP.
KNOW, YOUR BOOKS ALL ON A VERY
I MEAN, IT'S ACTUALLY
TINY LAPTOP.
TRANSFORMED OUR NEED FOR SPACE
I MEAN, IT'S ACTUALLY
N THIE LAST FIVE YEARS,
TRANSFORMED OUR NEED FOR SPACE
TECHNOLOGY.
N THIE LAST FIVE YEARS,
SO, YOU COUPLE THAT WITH NEW
TECHNOLOGY.
TRANSFORMABLE FURNITURE, AND YOU
SO, YOU COUPLE THAT WITH NEW
CAN REALLY MAXIMIZE A SMALL
TRANSFORMABLE FURNITURE, AND YOU
SPACE IN A POSITIVE WAY.
>> ON THE PBS SIGNATURE
SEGMENTs ON OUR WEB SITE.
>>
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE SENATE CLEARED THE WAY FOR A
FINAL VOTE ON THE BIPARTISAN
BUDGET DEAL.
A DOZEN REPUBLICANS JOINED ALL
55 DEMOCRATS TO OVERCOME WHAT
APPEARS TO BE THE LAST
PROCEDURAL HURDLE.
AND RUSSIAN PRESIDENT PUTIN
SIGNED A $15 BILLION BAILOUT FOR
UKRAINE IN A BID TO KEEP THE
COUNTRY IN MOSCOW'S ORBIT.
>> Woodruff: HOW CAN SIGN
LANGUAGE CONVEY THE EMOTION IN A
BOB DYLAN BALLAD OR THE SORROW
IN A PRESIDENTIAL EULOGY?
A LOT OF IT DEPENDS ON BODY
LANGUAGE.
WITH THE OUTRAGE OVER AN
INCOMPETENT INTERPRETER AT
NELSON MANDELA'S MEMORIAL, WE
LOOK AT KES TO
INTERPRET MORE THAN JUST WORDS.
THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND AGAIN, TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE FIVE MORE.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, THE FEDERAL
RESERVE ANNOUNCES IF IT WILL
SLOW DOWN ITS STIMULUS OF THE
ECONOMY.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.